---
layout: post 
title: Yoon (2016), LIF and Simplified SRM Neurons Encode Signals Into Spikes via a Form of Asynchronous
        Pulse Sigma–Delta Modulation 
tags: [Neuron models approximated with a form of ADM]
---

[comment]: <> ([Neural Encoding/Decoding with ADM])


Link to the paper [here](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7419261).


**Disclaimer**
This is not the very first work trying to decipher the mechanisms of neural encoding/decoding. Previous work have investigated how spiking neurons models (e.g. **integrate-and-fire (IF)** neuron, **leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF)**, **spike response model (SRM)**) encode/decode signals into spikes.
This work can thus be seen as complementary to these studies relating neuron models to a special form of **sigma-delta modulation (SDM)** which is the primary paper's contribution.


## Motivation
Tha main motivation of this line of research is to understand how various neuron models encode continuous-time signals into spikes.

### Why does it matter?

An understanding for biological neural encoding/decoding can:

1. Help us understand how to design efficient low-power encoder and artificial neural networks.
2. Guide how we design decoders that can reconstruct the encoded signals from spikes.
3. Pave the way to designing algorithms that can make sense of the generated spikes for further processing.


## Paper's Main  Contribution
To show a direct correspondence between 2 types of spiking neuron models, LIF and the simplified SRM, and a  form of asynchronous sigma-delta modulation, referred to as Asynchronous-Pulse-Sigma-Delta Modulation (APSDM).

This work is restricted to teh encoding mechanism of a single neuron as opposed to population coding.

### SDM vs. APSDM
- SDM is clock-based, uniform time sampling. The input signal is encoded into a sequence of bits (binary)
- Asynchronous Pulse SDM has no clock; it is event-based sampling. The signal is encoded into a train of time-encoded impulse functions. 


## Methods
The paper is structured into 4 parts. For the sake of this summary, I will focus on the first part since later papers build on the introduced APSDM framework.
1. **Part one** uncovers how LIF and SRM neuron equations can be re-written to match their defined APSDM framework.
2. **Part two** provides a detailed description of the APSDM encoder (a circuit's perspective).
3. **Part three** uncovers the design of a linear, closed-form decoding filter to reconstruct the continuous-signal from spikes.
4. **Part four** compares APSDM to a SDM with supporting examples.


### From SRM equation to APSDM
#### A. Interlude on Simplified SRM neuron ($SRM_0$)
-  The membrane voltage, $V_{SRM_0}$ is defined as a filter response. The model can be easily framed then as a signal processing module.
- $V_{SRM}(t)$ is the summation of 3 terms:
1. Input current response: $i(t) * \kappa_0(t)$; where $\kappa_0(t)$ is the input current response filter.
2. Reset response: $\sum_{m=1}^{M_{SRM}} \eta (t - T_m^{SRM})$ denoting the reset response train.  $\eta(t)$ represents the response of the neuron to its own generated spikes indexed by $m$ ($M_{SRM}$ is the total number of output spikes)
3. Voltage contributions from presynaptic neurons: $v_{SRM}^{PSP}(t)$

**But what is the reset response? How is it related to the spike generation mechanism?**
- At the time $t = t_0$ when the threshold voltage is exceeded, $V_{SRM}(t) > v_{t}$ , the reset response is activated. In other words, a negative-valued, decaying function $\eta(t-t_0)$ is added to $V_{SRM}(t)$ to drive it back toward the reset voltage $v_r$.
- Given this view, we can now see that the second term is a train of reset responses generated as a result of a train of output spikes, $s_{SRM}(t)$:

  $s_{SRM}(t) = \sum_{m=1}^{M_{SRM}} \delta(t - T_m^{SRM})$

#### B. Rewriting the SRM equation
$V_{SRM_0}$ can be expressed in a different form highlighting the effect of the reset response on the voltage:

$V_{SRM_0}(t) = $






