---
layout: post
title: Day 3 in Farina's Lab - Chat with Simon about decomposition
tags: [ICL Project]
include_toc: true
---

# Decomposition Algorithm
I don't fully understand why ICA or CKC and what are the differences?

## ICA - The Basics
- ICA is one of the most common BSS methods
- ICA has many algorithms such as FastICA, projection pursuit, and Infomax.
- ICA as the name suggests, assumes independence between the components.
- The idea behind it or the goal is to 
  1. maximize the non-Gaussianity
  2. minimize Mutual information
  3. maximize likelihood

- Fast ICA extracts independent components by maximizing the non-Gaussianity by maximizing the negentropy for the extracted signals using a fixed-point iteration scheme

# Really cool discussion with Simon
- We talked about the decomposition for fast ICA:
  - The way it works is by looking at the MUAP across the grid of channels. So we have a grid with channels 
    position and at each position the shapes of MUAP. 
  - The algorithm then looks at the MUAP with highest peak-to-peak then use this to get the rest (something like that)
  - The higher the amplitude of the maximum peak-to-peak the better the separation is. So for the separation, the 
    algorithm tries to get the filter (i.e Kernel values) to be applied on sEMG to get the MUs. It tries to set 
    those values to have a maximum separation between MUs and noise. They do a step of k-means clustering with 2 
    classes (one for the actual MU and a second class for noise)
  - ICA cannot output more MUs than the actual number of EMG channels that's why they add the delayed-version of the 
    signal. The reason exactly is not clear to him as well but he suggested I check the paper by Negro 2016
- We also talked about the number of identified MUs across days:
  - To identify exactly the same MUs the conditions of the recording should be the same; so position of electrodes 
    but also the type of task (isometric contraction). The MUs depedns on the quality of sEMG which is affected by 
    the volume conductance (the fat on the muscle, the size, ...). Cool note: they identify much lower number of MUs 
    on female participants than on males.
  - Identifying MUs for tasks with changing muscle lengths is much harder. There is a work in progress now in 
    collaboration with Facebook where a PhD student is looking at the MUs for wrist pronation/supination (a task 
    involving changing muscle lengths)
- In the ballistic experiment (ballistic: very fast, strong contraction. It is different than explosive movement: 
  where the participant applies strong force increasingly but he sustains it ), the hypothesis is that during motor 
  planning (period between the Ready and Go/No-Go signal), there is a high coherence in the beta band (13-30Hz) 
  between EEG and motor units. They are speculating that this synchrony between EEG and MUs in the beta band form a 
  closed-loop and is needed for motor planning?
  - The reason they ask the participant to do isometric contraction before the ready signal is to be able to extract 
    MUs and see their relationship across the different time periods. Otherwise, during rest no MUs are identified.

- They do a lot of experiments here with the tibialis anterior because it has the least fat layer. it is the only 
  muscle activated when they move the feet forward so the measured torque almost equals the force. It is located on 
  one bone so cross-torque is minimal

# Some new information 
- isometric vs dynamic movements.
  - Isometric: generating force **without change** in muscle length
  - Dynamic/ also isotonic: involves change in muscle length. Concentric contraction foe muscle shortening. Eccentric 
    for 
    muscle 
    elongation
- In case of dynamic movements: muscle force generates torque at the level of the joint (causing it to rotate)