---
layout: post
title: Day-to-day 
tags: [Visiting Researcher]
include_toc: false
---

## Friday 20.10.2023
- Looked into OpenSim (version 4.4) (following Arnault tutorial): attempt to load the ARM model and a motion file created from Neuromotion. 
    - GUI is not working, I don't see anything. Tried version 4.3 --> still same issue
- Moved to coding: managed to understand a bit how to simulate MU spike trains and a pool of motor neuron pool
- Switched to SNN and iEMG:
    - fixed the plotting in case of splitting the rep into different bins (plot all bins together)
    - fixed/revised issue with snn data preparation (wasn't relying on the correct MU id probably)
    - attempt to train on rep 1 and test on rep 2 for a single finger. Looked too promising to be true...will have to look and debug more.



## Monday 23.10.2023
 [IEMG project]
- Cleaned code/ merged changes. Tested trainning on rep 1 and testing on rep2 for thumb alone, thumb-index (kind of works), thumb-index-middle (doesn't work), all (not working).
- Attempted to train (and correctly plot) with a batch greater than 1. It doesn't work in this case of time series. I am not sure why exactly.
- Agnese suggested we use percentage mvc to have a bigger loss --> good idea!
- A new branch removing hidden layer...didn't test much yet.


## Tuesday 24.10.2023
- More testing with a single layer network: managed to make it fit on a thumb
- Refactor notebooks into a python script to start optimization with wandb
    - setup sweep for tau syn, learn the tau_mem
        - Sweep for [thumb](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEEG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/5zhgszn8/overview)
        - Sweep for [index](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEEG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/n5yboqwu)
        - Sweep for [middle](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEEG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/ti2esoop/overview?workspace=user-farahbaracat)
        - Sweep for [ring](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEEG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/2qx70uwt/overview?workspace=user-farahbaracat)
        - Sweep for [little](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEEG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/u0n3zfzu/overview?workspace=user-farahbaracat)
    - added a class for filtering the output vmem using a single leaky neuron: vmem is injected as current.


## Wednesday 25.10.2023
- Documentation of the current stat of the network
    - Summarize resuls of the individual sweeps
- Run sweep for all fingers together (2 different weight initialization ranges)


## Thursday 26.10.2023
- What is MU angle within a muscle?
- Got through part of the paper on Fuglevand's model to understansd the neuron parameters
- More sweeps with sclaing the loss function

## Monday 30.10.2023
- Sweep rep2 on rep1
    - changing the weight initialization:
        - Uniform [0-0.1](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEMG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/si6710sg?workspace=user-farahbaracat)
        - Uniform [0-0.05](https://wandb.ai/super-snn/iEMG_SNN_Agnese-srcs/sweeps/ixhxz536?workspace=user-farahbaracat).
- Checkout a new brnach for adding varaibility on the time constants




## Friday 3.11.2023
- Problem: can we really train the network on 2 sec windows? is this practical? how do we make the predictions then? We want to see the ouput of the network every 200 -250 ms. Does it matter if we are training on longer times?
- Ran sweeps on SNNMonster: it was a nightmare to setup tmux...had problems with the imports then with tmux running with conda...but finally found a fix.

- "Relevance of the spiking model to motor system" might be a good section to add


