---
layout: post
title: Day 1 - Introduction to Neuromorphic
tags: [CapoCaccia Workshop 23 - Sessions Notes]
include_toc: false
---

### Morning Session 

- Introduction
    - History
    - Logistics (website, Wiki,,,,)
    - Goal

The main goal is to discuss:
- what ideas/principles we can extract from ML and AI and implement them on the hardware?
- What can this community bring: what inspirations from the nervous system



Sebastian leading the introduction to the field:
- write down 6 words in the survey!
- Postdoc at Heidelberg, part of the brainscale 
- Workshop started 1994:
    - Origins: Publication of Carver Mead in 1990
        - Shows the current of ion channels depends on the voltage
        - Measures I_syn (function of V)
        - Asks: why not use the transistor in all its complexity: analog to do physical omputation. Some simple computation primitives:
            - conservation of charge (summation)
            - I = V/R (multiplcation). This R also stores the value, "resistive memeory"? --> memeory computation: co-location fo computation and memeory. The computation is hence defined by the network structure. To be contrasted with the Von Neumann bottleneck: transferring the info to and from the memory (DRAM) requires a lot of energy

- Spikes:  a nice analogue between engineered systems and nervous system: to transmit signals over distance we need to encode and decode 
    - temporal sparsity: although it computes faster, it only spikes sparsily. The reason is that spikes are expensive (number of spikes prop to the energy consuumed) --> whihc means that each spike has a high information content --> so how to encode signals into spikes? what coding scheme should we implement in neuron-inspired signal?




### 2nd Morning Session 
- Bio-inspired learning. A common theme is locality: local variables necessary for learning
    - STDP
    - Homeostatis
    - Structure plasticity


- Noise and computation in the brain
    
    - A crucial element in the brain 
    - Maybe what we define as noise is actually computation. Noise as a ressorce

- Carver Mead recent article on analog computation - NECO [Tobi]
- precison (the components are different: ie mismath on transistors or memristors) vs. accuracy (on the system level)



## Afternoon: Workgroups/ Discussions

- Discussion group by Micheal: Single-shot learning

- Workgroups
    - Denoising for speech enhancement: time series, generative network, unsolved in SNN yet


- Neuromorphic Chips
    - Analog: BrainScales, DYNASE, ALIVE,ROLLS
        - BrainScales: are accelerated in time (x1000), 512 AdExp
        - Spinaker: ARM 120 nm, 
    - Digital: Loihi, Spinnaker, Xylo, Spech
