---
layout: post
title: Day 4 - Information Processing and Plasticity - Role of Dendrites
tags: [CapoCaccia Workshop 23 - Sessions Notes]
include_toc: false
---


## Morning Session #1


- Why dendrites?
    - they have elaborate dendritic trees which are very diversse across regions and function (e.g motor neuron, )
    - also in terms of structure/morphology

    - eg. Pyradimal cell:
        - soma: that looks like a pyramid
        - basal dendrites on the bottom
        - apical dentras on the top from the apical trunk
    - dendrites are input devices: synapses are located near the dendritic tree


    - e.g L2/3 receives 7000 synapses. There seems to be more bias towards the distal dentdrites (receive more input)

    - Persistant spines (the ones that stay for months) ?

-  Dentrites express ion channels across the tree
    - Distribution of the channels vary along the dendritic axes, also regions and cell tyoes.
    - Spatial control of ionic channels across the tree
    - ion channels can generate spikes: dendritic spikes why? to efficiently propagate the spikes to the soma
    - back propagating AP are generated from the soma and propaate back to the apical dendrites
    - NMDA spikes (100 ms): cannot propagate very far, its more localized (they won't reach the soma) as opposed to Ca+ spikes (10s ms) or Na+ spikes (<5ms)
        - Why are these localized needed?  to control the hot zone of the Ca+spike at the apical. They serve as control but not

- Should we care about modelling the dendrites
    - dendritic spikes are another non-linearity

- input specificity: 
    - segregation of the input: where it is applied is an important characteristics


- What can these dendrites do? how does the neuron use it to perform operation?
    1. attenuation: when putting synapses far away, they are less in amplitude --> neuron's solution is having a local zone (NMDA) but this can be utilized as a feature to have a coincidence detector: only is th einput is arriving in a specific direction, it will have an effect (direction selectivity). This has also been shown in neuromorphic hardware: cf paper Kwabena, [dendrocentric learning](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-05340-6)

    3. Integration
        - Scatter-sensitive vs cluster sensitive:
            - In scatter-sensitive, scatter the inout across the dendritic tree --> we get an I_syn that reaches a plateau
            - Cluster-sensitive: more localized



**Bartlett**
- Interested in object reconition: how can we detect boubdaries (this is what allows us to recognize objects, to buid up shape representation)
- "they were trying to understand how to achieve this task or what is needed to achieve this task"
    - how do we then detect boundaries: maybe from NMDA non-linearity: each edge is coding in a single neuron firing. When two enuron (edges) fire together they would present that shape (i.e 2 edges connecting)
    - cells are really goos at foing binding and pooling

    - Now looking at the variety of cells we have in the visual system: e.g Parvo and magno cells. How to combine those variables? Typically the brain does that all the time:
        - Combining a lot of (bunch of) non-linear basis functions and add weights on top of that. 
        - cd. paper universal computation: if you have many dendritic non-linearities, we can perform very complex pattern recognition
        - The way those basis functions are created is by the connectivity patterns of the inhibition on the differnet dendritic columns??
            - flexibility to hit the dendrite at different spatial locations
            - + nmda non-linearity

    - Dendritic branch that has spatial non-linearity in it.s


