---
layout: post
title: ISEK 2024 - Day 3
tags: [ISEK 24 - Notes]
include_toc: false
---
# Keynote speech: Sandra K Hunter

- Limit of motor perdoamce descline with age for both men and women. Physical activity can affect those limits.
- Even the most eliste athelete exhibit age-related decline. So what happens independednt of activity lebel.



## age related loss of limb strngth &  power
- Hunter 2000 Decline overall of strngth at 10% er decade of the knee extensor muscles of older women 
- Afing of the nueromuscular syste:
    - limb power is more predictive of motor performance. It is about strngth of the msucle and speed of contraction?
    - With aging there is a slowing of the muscle
- There is an association between power olimb muscles and functionatil activity such as the ability to take the stairs or walk for 6 min
- A reduced power leads to fatigability


## age-related changes within the neuromuscular system
    - Brain atrophy with age is a given at 2% per decade
        - loss of grey matter, neurons and synapses with age but also loss of fibers as a result which leads to muscle atrophy
        - Fibers as well schrink with age. Type I fiber (slow fibers), type II (fast fiber) are even smaller (with age women losing more type II fibers.
    - They looked at single muscle fiber to tell whether the loss of power is becayse of the overall less numerb fo fibers or that each individual fiber's power is less
        - the intrinsic stnegh of fiber is not impaired but its the size of the muscle masss


## Dies neural drive to muscle change
    - quantify the neural drive by stimulating during voluntary activation with transcranial stimulation?


## fatigability
    - For isometric tasks, the older adults (<75 years) ar not as fatigable as young adults
    - For dynamic tasks, old adults are more fatigable during 




-------

# Session 1: PICs
