---
layout: post
title: ISEK 2024 - Day 1
tags: [ISEK 24 - Notes]
include_toc: false
---
> Disclaimer: those are rough notes from the talks that are still to be cleaned and re-organized.

# Keynote speech: Andrea d'Avella

## Decomposition of EMG and  patterns of muscle synergies
- One of the biggest challenges is to understand how the motor system orchestrate complex tasks
- There is a clear gap between how humans learn a motor task and the state at which the field of machine learning is currently at. 
- The brain is able to perform complex tasks with a very small number of parameters. This is what we call muscle synergies.
- The question: is how does the brain perform these complex tasks so efficiently?
    - To answer this question, we can go to Marr's 3 levels of analysis:
        1. Computational theory
        2. Repersentataion models
        3. Implementation

- He puts forward the muscle synergy hypothesis. Okay, how can we understand this hypothesis and at which level of Marr's analysis does it pay off?
    - He started  with a toy arm model
    - We know that the muscular system is very redundant; we have many muscles; some of which get activated together when doing a task.
    - Looking at Marr's levels:
        1. At the very simple level of Marr's analysis; at a computational level: there must be an optimization going on.
        [model](https://share.icloud.com/photos/0597TpoHXGbs-CXVvkWQiCrwg)
        2. at the representaiton level: we look into how a representation of goal is mapped into motor commmand? there must be a functional transformation. An optimal solution would be to compute an inverse function? but how this inverse of an internal model is implmented? how is this computation done?

- Key point: it is at this algorithmic/repesenatation level that we can formualte the muscle synergies hypothesis
    - Why this simplification: because we only need a small number of parameters to describe large repertoire of cmotor commands


- Illustration on the toy model: planar arm

        - 3rd implementaiton level: Neural networks are doing that. This synergy at the implementation lebel, must be a modular  network
            - what is the evidence for that? 
                - Early on there has been attemots to look for those synergies at the individual finger 
                - Hypothesis: EMG decomposition as a combination of muscle synergies (TResch et al Nat. Neuroscience 1999) 
                     - NMF to identigy this syneriges with the non-negativity constratins
            - Over the years there have been many forumation of mucle synergies models

- Achievements:
    - EMG decomposition in many sspecies and conditions
         - Synerfises in degensive reflexes (spatio-temporal synergies - D'avella Nat. Neuroscience 2003?
         ) . **Thought: can we create and train a RNN to reveal those muscle synergies (top-down). In other words can synergies emerge in a modular network**
         Thorugh very simple representaiton, brain is able to implement very complex and large umber of muscle combinations
        - Upper limb control in humans
        - human locomotor
            - using NMF, they could extract temporal component (ivanenko, J physio, 2004?)

    - Neural basis: can we provide evidence at the neural level
        - Experiment with stimulation. Saltiel J neurophysio, 1998, 2001. Simulation os spinal cord reveals muscle synergies
        - Optogeneic stimulation revels "motor synergy encoding" interneurons
        - Intra cortical miscrostimulation (OVerduin et al Neuron 2012)
        Summary: stimulation exp. and neural recording support modular organizaiton of motor control at the implementation lvel

    - Application to clinical field
        - How upper-limb synergues after stroke (cheung et al PNAS 2012)
        - Summary: muscle synery decmp. provide a novel characterization of motor imparirent after neurological lesions + changes in spatiotemporal synergies after cerebellar damage sugges ttheir corg by cortico-cerevellar loops

- Open issues:
    - Are synergies of neural origin or do they derive from task or biomechancical constraints?
    - Testing synergies as a causal model: virtual synergies. Can we predict?
    - Selection of the number of synergies
    - Rlelation to task space. How are synergies related to task space

- Issue 1:
    - Interlude: minimum spatial synergeis to describe a 3 D isometric force space is 3+1 =4 synergies?

- Issue 2: tendon- transfer syngery that makes a synerfy inefficeitve. BErger et al JNeurosicence 2013. On how subjects adapt to incompatible surgeries?

- Issue 3: how to determine the number of synergies

- Issue 4: how to characterise rile of muscle synergies in task space?


- From muscle synergies to Motor neuron syngerfies: 
    - Are muscle synergies implementeed at the spinal level as motor neuron synergies. Hug et al, J Physiokogy 2023
    - One possible each muscle synergy may drive motor e=beyribs if nultiple muscle.
        - Laine Dario's lab
        - Simone tanzerella
        - Birzelli  et al J, neurophysioofy 2024 (co-activateon of biceps and triped for force generation v sjoint stiffeniing)
        - Onlne control of synergiestivc MU (Rossato et al, J, Neurosi in press)
        - [SynergyAnalyzer MAtlab toolbox](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0169260724002128?ssrnid=4665608&dgcid=SSRN_redirect_SD)
        - Berg et al RSS 2023 (on the Myosuite end-to end RF,  synergy based learning)

- Advertisement: Open postdoc positions on modelling :D



----
## Oral session 2

- Impact of electrode placement on the identified muscle synergies.
    - Takeaway: same representation of muscle synergies regardless of placement even though the EMG envelope showed different muscle activiation patterns. This is during walking.

- Talk 4: Christopher how to verify that what we observe is true?   
    - One approach would be to shuffle the data
    - What does it mean to change the center of pressure? looking at events...

Talk 5: 
    - EMG-EMG coherence analysis: in the alpha and beta bands between pairs of muscles.




---- 
# Session 2:
- Simon's talk
    - Successive tracking of MUs across MVCs


---

# Keynote speaker 2:
- Most of time when we breath: they are the voluntary breath. Motor cirtical and cortical output. There are also the reflex that are active all the time.
- Best way to measure EMG is using intramuscular in the awake wuietly breathing people also from valve muscles
- Why measure MU activity: diaphram mu discharge reglects the discharge of hrenic motoneurons.
- In quiet breathing we are at roughly 10% so we are using only the low-threshold units.
    - Instantenous discharge frequency aligned with the airflow activity: a roughtly of 20 Hz

- Part 2: Inspiratory motorneurons in quiet breathing
    - Lost of muscles that are acitve in every breath 
    - Diaphram is one of the biggest muscles expanding the rip cage.
    - Early it was beleived that MU are activated buphasocally during breathing: like they are active at teh begining of the breath and another time towards the end of the breathing. (Butler 1999 J Physiology).
        - Cofired the Henneman's size principle (5 MUs recordied with the electrode) 
        - TAFPLOT (time frequency plot: mean range of firing frequency is 12.5 Hz)

