---
layout: post
title: ISEK 2024 - Day 2
tags: [ISEK 24 - Notes]
include_toc: false
---
# Keynote speech: Catherine Diselhorst-klug (university fo Aachen)
## What are my muscles up to?

The entire pipeline from electrodes to signal processing and clinical application

- how does the body manage to perform movvements at suc ahigh degree of freedom?
    - AP from brain to SC  to MN to muscle fibers and introduce mechanical coupling then force...to control posture and coordinate movementthere is  afeedback loop back to the brain.
    - this sounds like chaos? how to control this chaos?
        - trial and error principle this is how motor developement takes place. this way infants train their neuronal netowrk
        - motor learning and developement: the first month of lide related to spontaneous movements. Infants learn by playing; they learn range of motions. This way neuronal netowrks are trained and corrdination start to emerge
        - However there are cases of abnormal  motor developement (eg infantile cerbral palsy)
    - 
- Organization of motor control
    - suprapsnal centers 
    - proprioceptive feedback back to interneurons 
    - + movemtn to brain directly exteroceptive feedback
    - + feebakc from env. conditions


- How does CNS control muscle force?
    - motoneurons: can be investigated with needle EMG (used in clinical diagnosis up to now, gives infor about single MUs)
        - another way is HDemg (from 3o years back), 
            - and applying laplacian filters (a spatial filter), the peaks of MUAP are observed (1998)
        - with eelectrode arrays: if we plcae them paralley to MU and muscle fibers, we can get a spatially filtered signa of the MUAP travelling on the fibers.
            - we can then quantify conduction velocity
            - Campanini al 2022, sensors

- Pathological changes to MU excitation: she is interested in Differences between lower and upper motor neuron disorder
    - Study to investigate MU activation in spasticity
        - upper Mn disorder spacitity, they observe regular firing around 8 Hz.
    - We can diagnose neuromuscular disorder using non-invasive


- how are muscles activiated correctly to excete movement (Coordination):
    - kinesiology sEMG (measuremet of sEMG with info about movememt)
    - Muscle co-contraction
        - In healthy subejcts there is a coordinated activation of antagonist muscles
        - In patients with ICP, co-activation of muscles or reduced primitive synerfies are often interpresd as spasticity (velocity-dependent increase in the tonic stretch reflex)

    - They are intererseted in dsitinguishing spasticity from voluntary activation


- Assistive technologies for rehabilitation. To autonomisly retrain the nervous system
    - inRehaRob 






